Adding documentation for pre-push hooks (#12)
oakestra/documentation: content/docs/contribute/git-hooks-guide.md

---
title: "Contributor Git Hooks Guide"
date: 2024-03-20T15:56:27+02:00
draft: false
---

# Integrating Pre-commit into Our Development Workflow

## Overview

Git hooks are scripts that Git executes before or after events such as: pre-commit, pre-push. These hooks are a powerful part of the Git ecosystem, enabling custom actions based on the current repository state or the changes being committed. They are used for a variety of tasks such as syntax checking, testing, linting, and auto-formatting code before it is committed or pushed. More information on git hooks is found [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks)

### Why Git hooks

Git pipelines often fail because of linting issues, which then requires another commit to fix it, leaving the history of commits just filled with "liniting fix".

## Why `pre-commit`

> Git hooks are not shared across the repo, and it's only avaiable locally. This means every developer will need to implement their own hooks. Hence tool called `pre-commit`. The tool name `pre-commit` name is misleading as it implies it only provides pre-commit hooks. However it also provides other stages such as `pre-push`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Git hooks are not shared across the repo, and it's only available locally. This means every developer will need to implement their own hooks. Hence we use a tool called `pre-commit`. The tool name `pre-commit` name is misleading as it implies it only provides pre-commit hooks. However, it also provides other stages such as `pre-push`.
```

> Through this tool, developers define a configuration file that specifies what 

Reviewer: I think this sentence lacks a proper ending?

More information on the tool can be found [here](https://pre-commit.com/)

## Setting Up:

1. First, ensure that you have pre-commit installed. It can be installed via pip or Homebrew (for macOS users):

```sh
pip install pre-commit
# or
brew install pre-commit
```

2. **Install the git hooks scripts**:

> In Oakestra repo, there is a file called `.pre-commit-config.yaml` containing git hooks. They can be installed by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Oakestra repo, there is a file called `.pre-commit-config.yaml` containing git hooks. They can be installed by running:
```

> In Oakestra repo, there is a file called `.pre-commit-config.yaml` containing git hooks. They can be installed by running:

Reviewer: I cannot find this file ?
![image](https://github.com/oakestra/documentation/assets/65814168/4cbcc6c1-37e2-4b54-b807-9a12fb848126)

Author: https://github.com/oakestra/oakestra/pull/279

PR is not yet merged.

Author: Waiting for this to be approved first before the merging the implementation PR.
